<!--
  Copyright (c) 2024 Christopher Di Bella
  Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
  See /LICENCE for licence information.
  SPDX-License-Identifier: CC BY-SA 4.0
-->
# new-c++-project

Welcome to new-c++-project! This is a project template generator for C++ projects. Its primary
purpose is to reduce the amount of boilerplate that you need to interact with in order to get started
with your project.

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1

LICENCE
CODE_OF_CONDUCT
```

## Getting started

This project is fairly straightforward to use. Most projects can probably get away with running the
following:

```sh
$ ./new_cxx_project.py /path/to/project_name --author='Your name'
```

This will generate a C++23 project using CMake, and also give you a documentation setup similar to
this project's one.

## Options

* `--remote=<value>` sets the Git remote. If the tool detects a valid GitHub remote, then it will
  also generate files for tracking issues, pull requests, and GitHub actions.
* `--package-manager=<value>` sets the project's package manager. Valid values are `none` and `vcpkg`.
  Defaults to `none`.
* `--package-manager-remote=<value>` sets the remote to download the package manager from. Remotes
  that are on-disk should be prefixed with `file://`. The default remotes are
    * **vcpkg**: https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg.git

## Can you also support &lt;feature&gt;?

Contributions to the project are welcome! Supporting other toolchains, CMake features, build systems,
package managers, and remotes are certainly things that I'd like to see added. Please open a [feature
request](https://github.com/cjdb/new_cxx_project/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement&projects=&template=feature_request.yml&title=%3CAdd+a+descriptive+title+here%3E)
to discuss your needs.

In particular, help with supporting MSVC and delivering updates to previously-generated projects
would be appreciated.

## Can I change the licence for the files I generate?

Sorry, no. This project has multiple contributors, and to relicencing would require getting permission
from each contributor, for each licence. Also, in order to simplify the process for developers working
on different projects generated by `new_cxx_project.py` with different owners, we intend to keep the
licencing story very simple.

The generated source code and generated documentation have different (but still really permissive) licences.
Source code is licenced under [Apache Licence, Version 2.0 with LLVM Exceptions](https://llvm.org/LICENSE.txt).
The documentation is licenced under [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/?ref=chooser-v1)
(CC BY-SA 4.0).

## Can I edit the generated files?

Yes! You can and should edit them as you see fit. Any changes that you make are owned by you.

## Indices and tables

* {ref}`genindex`
* {ref}`search`
